>> [MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Now what about this
linkage that we've been talking about?
What happens if I call a1.identify?
What's it gonna do?
Is there an identify function on a1?
>> Kyle Simpson: Well,
so it's gonna say a1., and
it's gonna traverse the prototype and
it's gonna say is there
an identify on this object?
Yeah, beautifully there is.
So here's the first benefit that we
start to see of the prototype linkage.
Is that we have this ability to delegate
to a different object to handle a method
call, or property reference.
Notice that we have a1 and a2.
There's not multiple copies of the
identified function like there would be in
the module pattern.
What happens if we created a thousand
of these, a1 through a1000 and
every one of them was linked to this one.
There would only be one
copy of the function.
And that function we see right there on
line five, it references a this keyword.
When I say a1.identify what is the this
binding gonna be inside of that call?
>> Speaker 1: a1.
>> Kyle Simpson: a1 which is what we
want it to be so
it's gonna get the mean that a1 has.
If we say a2.identify what
is this keyword gonna be?
>> Speaker 2: a2.
>> Kyle Simpson: a2, exactly like we want.
And the same for a3 through a1000.
So though this keyword ends up
being a really nice mechanism for
us, when we're dealing with
delegation of the prototype chain,
only when we behave by the rules we'll see
here in a moment on how it can get bad.
But, if we behave by the rules, that
binding ends up working really well for
us.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now
what happens here on this I
have a slightly different code.
You see a1.identify on line 9.
What happens if I then on line 11 do
a1.identify = and I add a property?
Where does that change?
Does it change this guy?
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: No it actually adds it
directly here.
>> Kyle Simpson: Which
depending upon your mindset may or
may not make much sense.
But it didn't change that guy,
even though a1.identify as an RHS
reference would've delegated up and
called that function.
When we say a1.identify,
we're not replacing that guy, we're
adding a new function directly to a1.
So now when we call a1.identify on line 7,
which one are we calling?
This guy or this guy?
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: We're calling this guy's
instance, this is called shadowing.
Remember I talked about
variable shadowing in scopes?
Same thing can happen
with prototype chain.
Properties on the prototype
chain can shadow each other.
Now that I have a shadowed version of this
identify, whenever I say a1.identify,
it's always gonna find this guy,
it's never gonna find that guy.
Now here's where our things
starts to break down.
Because class oriented coding,
the design pattern of classes,
tells you to create parent classes and
child classes that have method
names that are the same.
And it says create an abstract version
of a method on the parent class, and
on your child class, create override that
version of it and be able to do things
like relative polymorphism where you call
super to call one level up the chain.
That's one of the major benefits
of the design pattern of classes,
is the ability to name your things
the same thing at multiple levels.
But here, we see that it actually
creates a whole world of problems.
Because look what happens on line 13 if,
inside of this guy,
I did want to somehow reference that guy.
I can't say this.identify,
cuz that's just gonna recurse to myself.
How do I do it?
I do this crazy thing that I call,
sort of explicit polymorphism.
I have to say foo.prototype.identify.
So to manually find this method.
And not only that,
I have to say call this.
Because I wanna make sure that when that
guy gets called, a1 is the this binding.
So do this crazy,
crappy syntax on line 13 to accomplish
the relative polymorphism that the class
design pattern would call for.
JavaScript as of this moment doesn't
have a mechanism to enable that.
So, if you choose to
create this shadowing,
if you choose to create multiple levels of
your prototype chain with the same method
name, the way classes tell
you to design your software.
You're asking for
having to do crap like that.
If however,
we had called this guy identify two or
anything else except for identify,
then inside of that function,
we could have said this.identify, and
it would have delegated up to that guy.
So if we use different method names,
everything works beautifully,
let me show you that.
Next slide shows us what I
call super unicorn magic.
Because as you'll see here,
I have a foo prototype identifier,
and a foo prototype speak.
On line 16, when I call a1.speak,
speak gets called through
the delegation on foo prototype.
But what does speak do.
He says this.identify.
What is the this key word inside of speak?
>> Speaker 2: a1.
>> Kyle Simpson: a1, so it's like saying
a1.identify.
Does a1 have an identify?
>> Speaker 3: No.
>> Kyle Simpson: No.
But he steps right back
up the prototype chain.
So the nice thing about the way
that this mechanism works is it's
always rooted at that call sign.
The this keyword always
references the call site.
And that's always what we want unless
we do that crappy shadowing thing.
So the takeaway that I would give you,
just at this point until you understand
what I'm gonna suggest as the alternative,
the takeaway that I would give you is,
it's your choice whether or
not you do shadowing.
And whether or
not you design your software to expect
the same method name at multiple levels.
If you avoid shadowing,
everything works with super unicorn magic,
it's just always the right thing.
If you decide to do shadowing, good luck
with all that extra crappy syntax, okay?
Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: And the end result is that
you wanna have it delegate
a function that can be shared across
multiple objects.
>> Kyle Simpson: Maybe, yeah.
Not necessarily multiple objects,
but yeah.
>> Speaker 4: Well if you have 10 a1, or
10a objects.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep.
>> Speaker 4: And you wanna share
identify.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep.
But I'm suggesting that delegation,
the way we're talking about,
it could be useful even
if there was only an a1.
It doesn't have to be multiples, but
multiples are certainly useful.
>> Kyle Simpson: [COUGH]
Where we're going when we get
to the punch line of all this,
when we talk about delegation as
a design pattern as opposed to classes,
I'll show you why I think that's
an important thing to uncover.
But right now, just exposing the mechanism
and trying to layer on to you and
show you why classes don't
fit well with this mechanism.
We've spent the better part of now almost
19 years since JavaScript was invented
trying to pretend that
JavaScript has classes.
And we've created every manner
of JavaScript library and
syntactic sugar that we
can invent under the Sun.
What it all boils down to is that
these are not copy mechanisms,
these are prototype linkage
behavior delegation
mechanisms.
>> Kyle Simpson: So what we
finally do is we finally come back to this
diagram, the diagram I gave you before.
We should be well versed in how Lexical
Scope works on the left hand side but
we now understand how this,
plus prototype, describes what
happens on the right hand side.
That this key word tells us
which building to go into,
which address of the building
downtown to go into.
The prototype mechanism tells us
how we're gonna find properties
if they don't exist on the direct object.
When we say a1.identify it first
looks on the first floor of a1 and
if it doesn't find it there,
it goes up one level,
traversing up one level of the prototype
chain, going up one floor of the elevator.
Goes to the second floor, goes to
the third floor, goes to the fourth floor,
it keeps going to the top until it gets
to the top, which is object prototype.
It's the analog to the global scope
when we are doing lexical scope.
Remember, these two mechanisms, while they
operate sort of similarly in that both
of them have elevators, the elevators do
not cross over in any way shape or form.
They are two orthogonal mechanisms.